README.md, before:

<!-- Typing SVG -->
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.demolab.com?font=Fira+Code&pause=1000&color=F70000&center=true&vCenter=true&width=1000&lines=Hi%2C%20I'm%20Mr.%20Negusu%20Gebrmichael!;Data%20Scientist%2C%20Public%20Health%20Expert%2C%20GIS%20Specialist;Global%20Health%20Consultant%2C%20Python%2C%20SAS%20Programmer%2C%20Tableau%20Data%20Visualization%2C%20Epidemiologist" alt="Typing SVG" /></p>

---

## 🧠 About Me

With over **30+ years of experience**, I specialize in **data science, public health emergency response, GIS mapping**, and **epidemiological research** across **Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Europe, and North America**. My journey includes collaborations with **WHO, UNICEF, CDC, FHI/USAID, and Save the Children**, among others.

I hold advanced Advanced Post graaduate fellow diplomas in **Applied Epidemiology (Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia,USA)** and **Data Science & Machine learning (Toronto, Canada)**. I’ve also contributed to over **100+ Public Health and field Epidemiology research thesis at school of public health,**, **10+ global publications**, and national and international health surveys.

---

## 🔬 Expertise

- **Data Science & Statistical Modeling**: Python, R, SAS, SPSS, STATA  
- **GIS & Mapping**: ArcGIS, ArcGIS Pro, Tableau, Power BI  
- **Public Health Data Management**: Epidemiology, Outbreak Surveillance, Risk Assessment  
- **Database Systems**: SQL, CesPRO, Epi-Info  
- **Visualization & Reporting**: Infographics, Dashboards, Storytelling, Tableau, Power BI
- **Programming**: Python, SAS, SQL  
- **Field Work**: Health surveys, GPS mapping, remote coordination  
- **Capacity Building**: Guest lecturer for the first it is kind course design and delivery the lecture as a guest lectuer at Addis Ababa University, School of Public Health, national/international training programs  
- **Languages**: English, Amharic  

---

## 🚀 Technologies & Tools

| Domain | Tools & Languages |
|-------|-------------------|
| **Programming** | Python, R, SAS, SQL |
| **Statistical Analysis** | SPSS, STATA, CesPRO, Epi Info |
| **GIS & Mapping** | ArcGIS, ArcGIS Pro, QGIS, Tableau |
| **Databases** | SQL Server, PostgreSQL |
| **Visualization** | Power BI, Tableau |
| **Other** | Git, VS Code, Jupyter, MCSE, Cisco CCNA/CCNP |

---

## 📈  Projects

- 🚨 Real-time **disease outbreak surveillance systems**
- 🗺️ High-resolution **epidemiological maps for emergencies**  
- 🧠 Applied AI & ML in **predictive health risk modeling**  
- 📊 Dashboards for **vaccination campaigns and refugee health**
- 🌍 Designed health information systems in **10+ countries**

---

## 🐞 Additional Knowledage

- Occasional Tableau-Python integration issues
- Epi-Info export limitations
- SQL encoding inconsistencies across platforms

---

## 👥 Contributors

- [@negusuworku](https://github.com/negusuworku)


## ⚽ Personal Interests

- 💪 Hitting the gym  
- ⚽ Playing football with my children and wife  
- 📺 Watching English Premier League matches — I'm a proud **Liverpool FC fan**  
  > Saddened by the recent loss of our beloved player **Diogo Jota** — may he rest in peace. YNWA ❤️


## ⚙️ How to Use

Personal Interests

🧘 Personal Interests
In my free time, I love:

💪 Going to the gym

👨‍👩‍👧‍👦 Playing football with my children and wife

⚽ Watching English Premier League

Die-hard Liverpool FC fan ❤️

Saddened by the recent loss of our beloved star Diogo Jota — may he rest in peace. You'll Never Walk Alone 🕊️

📚 Reading health policy, AI for health, and epidemiological case studies

📬 Let's Connect!
📧 Email: negusu2022@gmail.com

Commit message:

Update README with corrected text and new website info
Corrected duplicate wording and added information about developing a personal website for infographics.

README.md, after:

<!-- Typing SVG -->
<p align="center">
  <img src="https://readme-typing-svg.demolab.com?font=Fira+Code&pause=1000&color=F70000&center=true&vCenter=true&width=1000&lines=Hi%2C%20I'm%20Mr.%20Negusu%20Gebrmichael!;Data%20Scientist%2C%20Public%20Health%20Expert%2C%20GIS%20Specialist;Global%20Health%20Consultant%2C%20Python%2C%20SAS%20Programmer%2C%20Tableau%20Data%20Visualization%2C%20Epidemiologist" alt="Typing SVG" /></p>

---

## 🧠 About Me

With over **30+ years of experience**, I specialize in **data science, public health emergency response, GIS mapping**, and **epidemiological research** across **Africa, Asia, the Middle East, Europe, and North America**. My journey includes collaborations with **WHO, UNICEF, CDC, FHI/USAID, and Save the Children**, among others.

I hold advanced  Post graaduate fellow diplomas in **Applied Epidemiology (Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia,USA)** and **Data Science & Machine learning (Toronto, Canada)**. I’ve also contributed to over **100+ Public Health and field Epidemiology research thesis at school of public health,**, **10+ global publications**, and national and international health surveys.  Currently I am developing a website of mine to host an infographics platform to host all my 30 years of information management products.

---

## 🔬 Expertise

- **Data Science & Statistical Modeling**: Python, R, SAS, SPSS, STATA  
- **GIS & Mapping**: ArcGIS, ArcGIS Pro, Tableau, Power BI  
- **Public Health Data Management**: Epidemiology, Outbreak Surveillance, Risk Assessment  
- **Database Systems**: SQL, CesPRO, Epi-Info  
- **Visualization & Reporting**: Infographics, Dashboards, Storytelling, Tableau, Power BI
- **Programming**: Python, SAS, SQL  
- **Field Work**: Health surveys, GPS mapping, remote coordination  
- **Capacity Building**: Guest lecturer for the first it is kind course design and delivery the lecture as a guest lectuer at Addis Ababa University, School of Public Health, national/international training programs  
- **Languages**: English, Amharic  

---

## 🚀 Technologies & Tools

| Domain | Tools & Languages |
|-------|-------------------|
| **Programming** | Python, R, SAS, SQL |
| **Statistical Analysis** | SPSS, STATA, CesPRO, Epi Info |
| **GIS & Mapping** | ArcGIS, ArcGIS Pro, QGIS, Tableau |
| **Databases** | SQL Server, PostgreSQL |
| **Visualization** | Power BI, Tableau |
| **Other** | Git, VS Code, Jupyter, MCSE, Cisco CCNA/CCNP |

---

## 📈  Projects

- 🚨 Real-time **disease outbreak surveillance systems**
- 🗺️ High-resolution **epidemiological maps for emergencies**  
- 🧠 Applied AI & ML in **predictive health risk modeling**  
- 📊 Dashboards for **vaccination campaigns and refugee health**
- 🌍 Designed health information systems in **10+ countries**

---

## 🐞 Additional Knowledage

- Occasional Tableau-Python integration issues
- Epi-Info export limitations
- SQL encoding inconsistencies across platforms

---

## 👥 Contributors

- [@negusuworku](https://github.com/negusuworku)


## ⚽ Personal Interests

- 💪 Hitting the gym  
- ⚽ Playing football with my children and wife  
- 📺 Watching English Premier League matches — I'm a proud **Liverpool FC fan**  
  > Saddened by the recent loss of our beloved player **Diogo Jota** — may he rest in peace. YNWA ❤️


## ⚙️ How to Use

Personal Interests

🧘 Personal Interests
In my free time, I love:

💪 Going to the gym

👨‍👩‍👧‍👦 Playing football with my children and wife

⚽ Watching English Premier League

Die-hard Liverpool FC fan ❤️

Saddened by the recent loss of our beloved star Diogo Jota — may he rest in peace. You'll Never Walk Alone 🕊️

📚 Reading health policy, AI for health, and epidemiological case studies

📬 Let's Connect!
📧 Email: negusu2022@gmail.com
